hi guys Ed leak here today we're going
to talk about quality score hacking for
Google
AdWords there'll be a quick overview of
what quality score is how it's
calculated and then more importantly how
to hack it to improve your quality score
to drive down your
costs okay a quick real quick overview
of quality score uh even though it's a
decade old I am not going to spend 10
years rattling through this because it's
quite straightforward so essentially
quality score is designed find for a
high quality user experience uh at the
end of the day people on on Google
searching for your services products
answers to their questions so on and so
forth they are Google's customers the
whole reasoning behind quality score for
Google is to to ensure that the the
search experience for their customers is
of a high high standard and quality
score is a grade of one through to 10
one being awful
um your ads will barely show and 10
being
perfect and your score is calculated
every time ads are shown you can only
see your quality score as of today you
can't see any historical quality score
uh account a quality score it's on a a
keyword basis so there is a tool out
there called um
Optimizer and that's with an my ZR
Optimizer tocom I'm not affiliated to
the them it is a paid tool but if you
want to capture and record your quality
scores over time that tool allows you to
do so it's quite interesting it does
other things as well told you it was a
brief overview right straight on to the
components of quality score what what is
quality score made up of the fact of the
matter is with quality score a bit like
the Colonel's chicken recipe Google
keeps the keeps the exact calculation
under close wraps it's ESS secret that
everyone has to understand and and
interpret but that being said
clickthrough rate is the single biggest
component of quality score it's
supposedly around 65% historically it
was perhaps higher some people think
it's in the region of sort of 80 90%
however as with Organic search Google's
algorithms have been Have Become even
more sophisticated so actually they
understand the on page experience way
more than they previously did but most
experts would suggest it's still around
about 65% which is 2/3 of the quality
score just for clickthrough rate alone
and the remaining portion is down to
relevance of your keyword to your ad uh
your account history so essentially the
expected click-through rate versus the
actual click-through rate and this is a
benchmark against your peers against
other people advertising uh and
historical averages so on and so forth
and as I just said quality of your
landing page is now important it's
perhaps 10% of the actual quality score
metric arguably more important for your
end user to be honest your customer but
it's still very important for Quality
score uh and that includes page speed
and lad times again that's something
that's been mentioned for years now by
Google they like mobile optimized we
appropriate they like fast loading pages
and they don't like spammy which is
kind of obvious when you think about it
and also add extensions it's best
practice now everyone should be using ad
extensions yes they'll boost your
click-through rate but if other people
are using them it's going to boost
theirs as well so that isn't a quick win
it used to be when they were first
released many years ago and people just
weren't using them uh and you could put
your call outs on your site links and
you would see a significant gain across
the board to be honest but it's it's
pretty much part of the course now if
you don't know what those are Google
them you should be using them uh they've
been around a long time now and they're
free to use they boost your
click-through rate you can't uh you
can't really lose with them uh and
finally you've got device and location
biasing to Quality score it's a Slither
of the of the metric but essentially
there is a mobile biased um measurement
and uh geographical as well so that's it
the components just remember 2/3 of
which or thereabouts depending on who
you ask is clickthrough rate that's
significant to
remember okay so if that's the case
what's a good clickthrough rate uh it's
not 2% you may have seen that number
banded around it's more like 5 to 6% uh
and that's the average remember so
clickthrough rate incredibly important
to Quality score you want to be aiming
for at least 5 or 6% but you want to be
much higher if
possible and of course it goes about
saying this will vary from industry to
Industry uh but still don't look at 2%
as a as a good or reasonable click rate
um and of course I'm talking about
search Network here not display which is
considerably
lower okay moving swiftly on not a
component of quality score but ad rank
is the final destination for your bids
multiplied by your quality score uh and
it's really simple The Advertiser with
the highest ad rank wins the
auction here's an example uh it's in
pounds British pound sterling but at the
end of the day you could uh replace the
pounds there for dollars Euros whatever
takes you fancy that's irrelevant the
currency is irrelevant here what is
relevant is the numbers so we've got
James Olivia Robert and Jason they're
they're in a four-way Battle of bids to
get the the top four spots in uh in the
search results the assumption is they're
all bidding on the same keyword here of
course so james' collee score is nine
versus Olivia at five so on and so forth
and you can see the ad rank is a
multiple of the bid so 150 * 9 is 13.5
as an ad rank Olivia 2 * 5 is 10 and
again so on and so forth and therefore
because of those ad ranks the positions
are thus and I've done it in order to
keep it really straightforward on the
screen but you can see that it's it's
quite a straightforward calculation but
you can also see why quality score is
such a critical thing to get on top of
and to
improve and then the vious question off
the back of that is what do you pay how
do you work out what you pay for your
position so again it's slightly more
cumbersome but it's ad rank below you
divided by your quality score equals the
price you pay the ad rank below your
position divided by your quality score
equals the price you pay so in this
example James divides Olivia's ad rank
of 10 by his quality score score of nine
which gives
1.12 or thereabout Google adds a cent or
a penny onto uh each actual CPC price so
we've looked at the ab rank which is
driven by quality score times bid and
the price significance here because of
the quality score difference is very
tangible Jason in the fourth spot he
could be paying as much as 400% more
than James in the top spot three
position difference four times the price
because of quality score that should
have sold it to you if you weren't that
bothered about quality score before
hopefully you're now looking at that
thinking blim me yeah I need to go on
top of that so let's bust a few myths
real quickly just to dispel any uh
untruths about quality score yeah
quality score benefiting from higher
positions uh nonsense that's wrong uh
Google factors that in it understands
that if you're higher up the page you're
going to get a higher clickthrough rate
so don't be con into thinking you can
just bid more and and get a higher
quality score as a result a higher
quality score equates to more sales
apparently no it doesn't what it equates
to is it improves your CPA because you
pay less for your bids but that's not
more sales that's paying less for sales
and there's a significant difference
there it's a good thing but it's not the
same thing and the display network does
not affect the search Network they both
have separate quality scores next myth
increasing your bid boosts your quality
score that's another lie bid is not part
of the quality score calculation as you
saw before it's part of AD rank in that
your quality score is times your bid to
achieve your ad rank but your bid is not
part of quality
score and another myth it's kind of a
myth kind of true uh deleting low
quality score areas of the account will
increase your quality score for uh yes
and no immediately no it won't because
Google takes into account historical uh
data on your account as I've put there
time is a great healer but don't think
that you can delete 90% of your account
cuz it's crap and have a a boosting
quality score the very next day doesn't
work like that I'm
afraid okay what's a good quality score
one through three bottom of the stack
junk uh the Google Benchmark for the
average is around about the five Mark uh
so therefore good is above average 7 to
eight uh 9 to 10 pretty darn perfect to
be honest with you okay first hack on
the list is to focus um this is really
straightforward less of a hack more of a
an account optimization understanding if
you actually look at your account from a
keyword level you'll find typically that
sort of five to 10% of your keywords are
spending all your money and the vast
majority aren't uh and there for it's a
case of you want to optimize and pay
attention to and focus on this top
percentile uh cuz that's where you're
going to going to get all your
performance
games HCK number two is to sharpen your
tool quick rule of thumb here is as I
briefed over on the quality score scale
one to three crap delete them it's not
to say you can't reuse them but for now
delete them 4 to six they're average
this is where you should optimize first
so I'm going to run through a few
tactics to do so but yeah focus on your
range of four to six cuz that's where
you can make the biggest impact 7 to8 to
be honest that's pretty okay it's above
average until you fixed every single
sort of average quality score issue that
you've got in the 4 to six range I I
would leave 7 to8 alone 9 to8 well just
leave them don't fix what ain't broke to
get yourself from an average of five
just make sure you take out your your
lower click-through rate keywords in in
ad groups and put them in their own
thematically uh linked ad group you know
don't stuff your ad group's fly keywords
keep them tight and uh look to improve
click through rate and therefore quality
score going forwards because that in
turn will allow you to um be confident
that you can bid up the newly optimize
nearly thinned out ad
groups so hack three is branching out
single keyword ad groups exactly as it
says on the tin this is one keyword in
an ad group with a highly targeted
advert and text and of course a landing
page to suit don't rush off and uh
create a million single keyword ad
groups and then send them all to the
same landing page cuz you're kind of
defeating the point here you want to
find your really really high performing
keywords that convert uh that are mixed
up with other other keywords in other AD
groups and strip them out and give them
their own uh essentially their own
budget and their own air to breathe and
this in turn will increase click through
it will in increase quality score so if
these keywords are performing now they
can get
better hack four is the easy swing
branded keyword uh this is something I
don't see a lot of people doing and it
surprises me really surprises me in fact
we we worked with quite a large retailer
uh running up to Christmas last year and
big enough that a lot of their products
people will search for the term plus
their brand or Brand Plus the search
term so by incorporating their brand
name and variance of into uh ad groups
we significantly increase the
clickthrough rate I mean significantly
and that in turn had a an impact a
positive impact of course on quality
score hack five spruce up essentially
what this is is using a very simple uh
methodology to understand which your
best advert so it's really simple you
take your click-through rate which
Google cares about and quality score
cares about uh and times it by your
conversion rate which you care about so
if you had three ads in an ad group
you'd literally take the clickthrough
rate times conversion rate it give you a
score and that would tell you from a
balance perspective which ad is is is
working this is a really quick simple
scoring method for your adverts Google
has just recently introduced ad split
testing which helps things so use it in
tandem with uh split
testing hack six is the lazy swing I was
a little bit reluctant to put this one
in but I'll be honest with you if You'
got a big account it's um it's a quick
fix it's a quick win so DKI Dynamic
keyword insertion is uh a sliver of code
well adword code you put in your ad
headline or description most people use
it in the the headline
which inserts where there's appropriate
space inserts the users search term into
your ad and of course that increases the
relevance and gives your clickthrough
rate a boost quick word of caution
though I wouldn't use this as a lasting
tactic uh I would use it on a large
account where you've got a lot of
underperforming keywords to bring them
up to speed uh and then go back to them
and rewrite adds in in
time and hack number seven is to Blossom
with remarketing lists for search ads
rlsa hopefully you've heard of
remarketing rlsa is essentially search
remarketing so people that have
previously clicked on your ad and
visited your website when they search
again for the term your ad will come up
again but this gives you the option to
bid it up uh and also gives you a few
other options beyond that so that you
can appear again for that for that
search the reason you want to do that of
course is because people don't instantly
buy typically and and if they're
shopping around and they've been to your
website once you may want them to come
back and if you're doing your job right
they may well buy from you and this
essentially increases the odds of of
them doing so the beauty of which you
get a higher click-through rate because
of familiarity so they've already
searched they've already seen you
they've already visited your website and
they are more likely therefore to click
on your ad again this boosts your
click-through rate and with clickthrough
rate being 2/3 of the quality score or
thereabouts it boosts your quality score
so it's good for business
right so we've run through quality score
what it is how it works how the auction
Works uh some myths and seven hacks that
you can employ as of today to to boost
your quality score reduce your costs but
I don't want to get too trans fixed on
quality score yes it's really critical
however quality score impacts your ad
rank your ad rank impacts your cost per
click but crucially your cost per click
is what impacts your cost per
acquisition and at the end of the day
your cost per acquisition always wins
yes we should care about quality score
but ultimately regardless of what anyone
says CPA wins and ultimately is what
makes your business either work with
AdWords or not and finally to to
simplify all of this relevancy that's
what Google wants so they want the
search term to be relevant to the ad to
the last landing page and therefore
height and clickthrough rates so they
get paid height and click-through rates
so you get rewarded with quality score
boosts and therefore improved ad Rank
and therefore a lower
CPC however from a non-algorithmic non
bot computer perspective continuity is
key continuity essentially means that
this the person that's looking for your
thing your product your service whatever
it may be
when they search they read your ad and
they land on your page that you are
providing a a seamless experience for
them so they're getting what they want
if you fail to do that you will lose
money you'll waste
money final pun of the day don't be
stumped you join my Facebook page and
ask questions on the uh video I'll
happily answer them or post a comment in
the in the comment section below the
video thanks for taking time to watch
the the video hope you found it useful
and I'll see you again and hopefully
next week cheers